# RECYCLE-STATION
Our team Eco-odyssey aspires to provide an impactful community-based online platform that can also drive initiatives to volunteer, raise awareness, and promotes activities that can aid in educating waste pickers and the general public about online waste collection, recycling, and the environment. Today, every city is dealing with a garbage crisis; piles of garbage on roads are a common sight, and waste is everywhere, in the form of rotting mounds that litter our environment, damage and contaminate our water bodies, rivers, and lakes. Can we, as individuals and as a society, lessen the impact of this expanding threat? What if we collect and donate/sell almost every recyclable thing in our home, from empty milk packets, shampoo bottles, pens, clothes, etc., and compost the organic waste. To tackle this nuisance, we are endeavouring to build an online platform that will connect every household across cities and towns with waste pickers and rag pickers who will collaborate with waste management vendors, recycling units, and manufacturing factories. The online website aims to provide customers with a hassle-free online pickup of waste materials at their convenience on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis. All a user has to do is go to the website and register and schedule a pickup time and slot for recyclable items. Once a slot is confirmed, an agent will come to the designated location at the scheduled time. Based on the weight and type of recyclable waste, customers can obtain points, cash coupons and, on successful redemption of those points, they are given plants, saplings, and earthen pots. This will not only encourage people to go green and keep our roads and lanes litter-free, but will also reduce greenhouse gas such as carbon dioxide and methane. Furthermore, this will also improve the condition of waste pickers and rag pickers who are often overlooked and are not paid well for their work, this platform will not only facilitate proper waste segregation and recycling through them but also generate ample employment in their community. Producing goods from recycled materials consumes less energy, fewer natural resources and reduces demand for raw material. Recycling result in fewer fossil fuels being burned and fewer greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change. Energy is used in all the 4 stages of product development: extraction of raw materials, manufacture of raw materials into products, product use by consumers and product disposal. Removing any one of these steps by recycling can save large amount of energy. Biodegradable and other organic wastes are frequently dumped into landfills, where they become trapped with non-biodegradable wastes, resulting in anaerobic decomposition and methane production. Recycling 42 million tonnes of paper not only reduces water pollution and air pollutants by 73% but also saves 714 million of trees. Recycling plastic, glass, metals, and fabrics can also help to decrease water consumption, deforestation, and CO2 emissions. This shows the importance of recycling in today’s world if we want to leave this planet for our future generations.
